docs(release-highlights): Adds highlights for 6.2 release. (#4493)
patternfly/patternfly-org: packages/documentation-site/patternfly-docs/content/get-started/release-highlights.md

title: Release highlights
section: get-started
---
import './get-started.css';
import { Divider, Timestamp } from '@patternfly/react-core';

<Timestamp>March 2024</Timestamp>

## PatternFly 6.2

### Promoted package versions
- patternfly/patternfly ([changelog](https://github.com/patternfly/patternfly/releases/tag/v6.2.0))
    - [@patternfly/patternfly@6.2.0](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@patternfly/patternfly)
- patternfly/react ([changelog](https://github.com/patternfly/patternfly-react/releases/tag/v6.2.0))
- PatternFly extensions 
    - [@patternfly/chatbot@2.2.0](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@patternfly/chatbot) ([changelog](https://github.com/patternfly/chatbot/releases/tag/v2.2.0))

### Website updates

##### Bugs 

> - We corrected a typo in the [PatternFly spacers table](/design-foundations/spacers/#patternfly-spacers).

Author: ```suggestion
```

- We adjusted the SVG download behavior for [PatternFly icons](/design-foundations/icons/#all-icons), to remove a wrapping `<span>` that prevented imports into some design tools.
- We improved accessibility for the hover text of PatternFly logos in the website masthead and footer.
- We fixed an issue in our demos where the PatternFly masthead logo was the wrong color. 

> - We updated the [alerts timeline example](/charts/bar-chart#alerts-timeline) to center tooltips above their respective bar.

Author: ```suggestion
- Charts: We updated the [alerts timeline example](/charts/bar-chart#alerts-timeline) to center tooltips above their respective bar.
- Charts: We fixed a few issues in CodeSandbox chart examples, including adding missing Victory dependency, adding missing `ChartThemeColor` import, ensuring Victory packages are up to date.

```

- [Clipboard copy](/components/clipboard-copy): We added a missing action tooltip in the [inline compact with additional action](/clipboard-copy/#inline-compact-with-additional-action) example.

> - We fixed a few issues in CodeSandbox chart examples, including adding missing Victory dependency, adding missing `ChartThemeColor` import, ensuring Victory packages are up to date.

Author: ```suggestion
```

- We expanded the [PatternFly 6 upgrade guide](/get-started/upgrade) to include additional instructions that we've put together as products have been completing their migration.

### Component updates

#### Bugs 
- [Alert](/components/alert): We added micro animations to alert and alert groups. You can observe this behavior across examples and demos for both.
- [Button](/components/button): We updated the `aria-disabled` implementation so that it is appropriately `true` or `false` by default. 
- [Clipboard copy](/components/clipboard-copy): We added the `string[]` type to `children`.
- [Charts](/charts/about-charts): We fixed errors related to Victory 37.3.4. If you're using PatternFly 5, use [react-charts](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@patternfly/react-charts) v7.4.8 with Victory v37.3.4 or later.
- [Code editor](/components/code-editor): We updated `handleResize` to ensure that it properly adjusts with viewport changes.
- [Data list](/components/data-list): We removed `aria-labelledby` and `aria-selected`, to align with best practices for accessibility. 
- [Description list](/components/description-list): Added support to allow the help text button popover to open via keyboard.

> - File upload (both [simple file upload](/components/file-upload/simple-file-upload) and [multiple file upload(/components/file-upload/multiple-file-upload)]): We updated the input content to be hidden, to fix accessibility problems with keyboard focus.

Author: ```suggestion
- File upload (both [simple file upload](/components/file-upload/simple-file-upload) and [multiple file upload](/components/file-upload/multiple-file-upload)): We updated the input content to be hidden, to fix accessibility problems with keyboard focus.
```

> - [Masthead](/components/masthead): We correct vertical centering.

Author: ```suggestion
- [Masthead](/components/masthead): We corrected vertical centering.
```

> - [Menu](/components/menus/menu): We updated `<MenuItem>` so that a mouse can properly trigger a tooltip on `aria-disabled` items. 

Reviewer: Yep that's the one!

- [Search input](/components/search-input): We updated `isAdvancedSearchOpen` to be `false` by default.
- [Select](/components/select): We fixed scrolling for menus with grouped items.
- [Table](/components/table): We rewrote table's [column management](/components/table/react-demos#column-management) and [column management with draggable](/components/table/react-demos#column-management-with-draggable) features, to replace the use of the deprecated `<DragDrop>` component and update the demos accordingly.
- [Text area](/components/forms/text-area): We added a missing modifier class that caused display issues when text areas were in focus. 

#### Features 

> We added the following list of new component features:

Author: ```suggestion
We added the following new features:
```

title: Release highlights
section: get-started
---
import './get-started.css';
import { Divider, Timestamp } from '@patternfly/react-core';

> <Timestamp>March 2024</Timestamp>

Reviewer: Since we're using the Timestamp component, we should pass in the `date` property. Without it, the `datetime` attribute on the `<time>` element will be the current datetime based on when the page was rendered, so come April the datetime would refer to April rather than March. This should do it:

```suggestion
<Timestamp date={new Date(2025, 2, 19)}>March 2024</Timestamp>
```

The 19 can be changed to whatever date the PR would actually be merged.

- We removed the Design with Sketch page, since that information is no longer current. References to the old PatternFly Sketch library now point to the v5 archive site.
- Charts: 
    - We updated the [alerts timeline example](/charts/bar-chart#alerts-timeline) to center tooltips above their respective bar.
    - We fixed a few issues in CodeSandbox chart examples, including adding missing Victory dependency, adding missing `ChartThemeColor` import, ensuring Victory packages are up to date.
- [Clipboard copy](/components/clipboard-copy): We added a missing action tooltip in the [inline compact with additional action](/clipboard-copy/#inline-compact-with-additional-action) example.
- [Tabs:](/components/tabs) 
    - We added a missing [props table for `TabContentBody`](/components/tabs#tabcontentbody).
    - We removed the independent tab content page and moved the content within [the tabs HTML documentation](/components/tabs#tab-content). 

##### Features
- We expanded the [PatternFly 6 upgrade guide](/get-started/upgrade) to include additional instructions that we've put together as products have been completing their migration.

### Component updates

#### Bugs 

> - [Button](/components/button): We updated the `aria-disabled` implementation so that it will only render when `true`. If it's `false` or `undefined`, it will not render on the element.

Reviewer: Might be worth also calling out that if a consumer has tests checking for aria-disabled to be false or to match the disabled property, those tests should be updated.

    - [@patternfly/react-user-feedback@6.1.0](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@patternfly/react-user-feedback) ([changelog](https://github.com/patternfly/react-user-feedback/releases/tag/v6.1.0))

### PatternFly 6 enablement

As products have continued their PatternFly 6 migration journeys, we've received helpful feedback on the upgrade process, including common roadblocks and situations that could use more guidance. So, we expanded and reorganized the [PatternFly 6 upgrade guide](/get-started/upgrade) to more clearly and comprehensively support the upgrade process. 

### Component animations

Our highly-anticipated animations project focuses on integrating motion design into PatternFly components, to enhance user experiences and provide additional cues for interaction. You can keep track of this project via [our micro-animations roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/patternfly/projects/16/views/23?pane=issue&itemId=86507128&issue=patternfly%7Cpf-roadmap%7C215). 

Note that animations will either be specified as opt-in or opt-out:

> - **Opt-in:** Must be enabled in your code.

Reviewer 2: Should we add a note about why opt-in animations are being released? Rather than having them all be opt-out? Make a note about the fact that they'll require further updating code in order to get them running?

> - **Opt-out:** Turned on by default, can be disabled in your code.

Reviewer 3: Just an FYI in case it isn't known, there isn't a react prop or anything to disable the opt-out animation (navigation in this case), like there is for opt-in. You'd either need to disable all animations (`.pf-v6-m-no-motion` on the `<html>` element) or I guess you could override the CSS vars for the nav animation, but a user would either need to ask us how to do that or figure it out on their own. Technically it can be disabled in your code as the bullet point mentions, but wanted to call that out.

    - **Animation type:** Opt-in.
    - **Animation behavior:** For alerts within a group, there's a slide-in animation as new alerts are received and a slide-out animation as alerts are dismissed.
    - **Example:** To visualize the motion behavior, you can interact with our website examples, which have opted in to animations.  
    - **Note:** By default, alert animations are opt-in and will only apply to alerts within an alert group. Opting into animations could require test updates. To ensure your test pass, the quickest solution is to set `hasAnimations` to `false`. Additionally, when alerts are dynamically added to a group, you must ensure that new alerts are prepended to the alert group list, rather than appended to the end of it.  
1. [Navigation](/components/navigation) 
    - **Animation type:** Opt-out.
    - **Animation behavior:** For expandable navigation items, the sub-menu fades in and out as navigation items are expanded and collapsed.
    - **Example:** As an opt-out animation, you can see this motion behavior by default across expandable navigation items.
1. [Notification badge](/components/notification-badge)
    - **Animation type:** Opt-in.

>     - **Animation behavior:** When a new notification arrives, the bell icon has a "ring" animation.

Reviewer: Possibly more nitpicky, but something along the lines of "When the animation is triggered..." might be more accurate since It will be entirely up to the consumer to trigger the animation - though it most likely would be when a new notification arrives. My only worry is not wanting consumers to think we handle triggering the animation for them, even though our example does show it requires manual logic.

- [Text area](/components/forms/text-area): We added a missing modifier class that caused display issues when text areas were in focus. 
- [Truncate](/components/truncate): Fixed a text-duplication bug that appeared for long, middle-truncated strings.

#### Features 
We added the following new features:

- [Alert](/components/alert): We added opt-in micro animations to alert and alert groups via the new `hasAnimations` prop. Animations will be visible in PatternFly.org examples soon.
    - **Note:** By default, alert animations are opt-in and will only apply to alerts within an alert group. Opting into animations could require test updates. To ensure your test pass, the quickest solution is to set `hasAnimations` to `false`. Additionally, when alerts are dynamically added to an alert group, you must ensure that new alerts are prepended to the alert group list, rather than appended to the end of it.

> - [Card:](/components/card): We added the new `hasHeaderWrap` prop to use when there are long strings or multiple items in card headers.

Reviewer 4: Tiny nit!
Double colon here.

Author: Ah good catch ty!

title: Release highlights
section: get-started
---
import './get-started.css';
import { Divider, Timestamp } from '@patternfly/react-core';

<Timestamp date={new Date(2025, 2)}>March 2025</Timestamp>

## PatternFly 6.2

### Promoted package versions
- patternfly/patternfly ([changelog](https://github.com/patternfly/patternfly/releases/tag/v6.2.0))
    - [@patternfly/patternfly@6.2.0](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@patternfly/patternfly)
- patternfly/react ([changelog](https://github.com/patternfly/patternfly-react/releases/tag/v6.2.0))
    - [@patternfly/react-charts@8.2.0](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@patternfly/react-charts)
    - [@patternfly/react-code-editor@6.2.0](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@patternfly/react-code-editor)
    - [@patternfly/react-core@6.2.0](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@patternfly/react-core)
    - [@patternfly/react-drag-drop@6.2.0](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@patternfly/react-drag-drop)

>     - [@patternfly/icons@6.2.0](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@patternfly/icons)

Author: ```suggestion
    - [@patternfly/icons@1.0.4](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@patternfly/icons)
```
I think?

    - [@patternfly/react-styles@6.2.0](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@patternfly/react-styles)
    - [@patternfly/react-table@6.2.0](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@patternfly/react-table)
    - [patternfly/react-templates@6.2.0](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@patternfly/react-templates)
    - [@patternfly/react-tokens@6.2.0](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@patternfly/react-tokens)
- PatternFly extensions 
    - [@patternfly/chatbot@2.2.0](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@patternfly/chatbot) ([changelog](https://github.com/patternfly/chatbot/releases/tag/v2.2.0))
    - [@patternfly/quickstarts@6.2.0](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@patternfly/quickstarts) ([changelog](https://github.com/patternfly/patternfly-quickstarts/releases/tag/v6.2.0))
    - [@patternfly/react-catalog-view-extension@6.1.0](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@patternfly/react-catalog-view-extension) ([changelog](https://github.com/patternfly/react-catalog-view/releases/tag/v6.1.0))
    - [@patternfly/react-component-groups@6.2.0](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@patternfly/react-component-groups) ([changelog](https://github.com/patternfly/react-component-groups/releases/tag/v6.2.0))

>     - [@patternfly/react-log-viewer@6.1.0](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@patternfly/react-log-viewer) ([changelog](https://github.com/patternfly/react-log-viewer/releases/tag/v6.1.0))

Author: ```suggestion
    - [@patternfly/react-log-viewer@6.2.0](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@patternfly/react-log-viewer) ([changelog](https://github.com/patternfly/react-log-viewer/releases/tag/v6.2.0))
```
version?

- [Search input](/components/search-input): We updated `isAdvancedSearchOpen` to be `false` by default. This fixes an issue where `aria-expanded` was only applied when the state was updated by clicking the search open, rather than when the component first rendered.
- [Select](/components/select): 
    - We fixed scrolling for menus with grouped items.
    - In the [select template](/components/menus/select/react-templates), we added support for custom keydown handling.
- [Table](/components/table): We rewrote table's [column management](/components/table/react-demos#column-management) and [column management with draggable](/components/table/react-demos#column-management-with-draggable) features, to replace the use of the deprecated `<DragDrop>` component and update the demos accordingly.
- [Text area](/components/forms/text-area): We added a missing modifier class that caused display issues when text areas were in focus. 
- [Truncate](/components/truncate): Fixed a text-duplication bug that appeared for long, middle-truncated strings.

#### Features 
We added the following new features:

> - [Alert](/components/alert): We added opt-in micro animations to alert and alert groups via the new `hasAnimations` prop. Animations will be visible in PatternFly.org examples soon.

Author: ```suggestion
- [Alert](/components/alert): We added opt-in micro animations to alert and alert groups via the new `hasAnimations` prop. You can see animations in the [alert component examples](/components/alert).
```
Eric is adding this in another PR / will prob be good to go before this one

> - [Alert](/components/alert): We added opt-in micro animations to alert and alert groups via the new `hasAnimations` prop. Animations will be visible in PatternFly.org examples soon.

Author: ```suggestion
- [Alert](/components/alert): We added opt-in micro animations to alert and alert groups via the new `hasAnimations` prop. To visualize the motion behavior, you can interact with our website examples, which have opted in to animations.
```

- [Layout for comparing ChatBots](/patternfly-ai/chatbot/overview/demo#comparing-chatbots).
- [Support for quick starts](/patternfly-ai/chatbot/messages#messages-with-quick-start-tiles).
- [Global ChatBot setting menu](/patternfly-ai/chatbot/ui#settings). 
- [Terms of use modal](/patternfly-ai/chatbot/ui#terms-of-use).
- [Loading and error states for the conversation history](/patternfly-ai/chatbot/ui/#drawer-with-search-and-new-chat-button).
- Clicked-state styles for [message actions](/patternfly-ai/chatbot/messages/#message-actions).
- Active-state and selected-state styles for [quick responses](/patternfly-ai/chatbot/messages/#messages-with-quick-responses).
- [Support for custom message content](/patternfly-ai/chatbot/messages#custom-message-content) via the `extraContent` prop. Refer to the docs and use this feature with caution. 
- Additional message content types (as shown in the [bot messages](/patternfly-ai/chatbot/messages#bot-messages) example): 
    - Inline error message.
    - Block quotes.
    - Headings.
    - External links, with styling.
    - Images.
    - Tables.

> **Note:** We're still updating our design guidelines to fully reflect these changes and will provide an update once they are complete.

Author: ```suggestion
```
making an update ...

##### Other notable changes

> - We added [analytics examples and documentation](/patternfly-ai/chatbot/analytics) to provide general guidance on the implementation of analytics tracking.

Author: ```suggestion
- We updated [the ChatBot design guidelines](/patternfly-ai/chatbot/overview/design-guidelines) to include guidance for new features, expand existing guidance, and add higher-level patterns for using ChatBots in your product.
- We added [analytics examples and documentation](/patternfly-ai/chatbot/analytics) to provide general guidance on the implementation of analytics tracking.
```

import './get-started.css';
import { Divider, Timestamp } from '@patternfly/react-core';

<Timestamp>March 2024</Timestamp>

## PatternFly 6.2

### Promoted package versions
- patternfly/patternfly ([changelog](https://github.com/patternfly/patternfly/releases/tag/v6.2.0))
    - [@patternfly/patternfly@6.2.0](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@patternfly/patternfly)
- patternfly/react ([changelog](https://github.com/patternfly/patternfly-react/releases/tag/v6.2.0))
- PatternFly extensions 
    - [@patternfly/chatbot@2.2.0](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@patternfly/chatbot) ([changelog](https://github.com/patternfly/chatbot/releases/tag/v2.2.0))

### Component updates

#### Bugs 
- Select: We fixed scrolling for menus with grouped items.
- Masthead: We correct vertical centering.

#### Features 
-

### Extension updates 

#### ChatBot

##### Bugs
- We fixed an overflow issue in popovers with long titles.
- We fixed the appearance of links.
- We removed the cancel button from the user feedback form, which was unnecessary due to the presence of a close button.
- We made resize and form-control overrides more important to assist with downstream implementations.

> - We added loading and error states to the conversation history.

Author: oo yep, good point! I think it makes sense to move it to features

- We made updates for general style consistency.

> 

Reviewer 5: * We are now allowing consumers to pass additional [rehype](https://github.com/rehypejs/rehype) plugins into Messages for further customization of Markdown parsing.
* Replaced MessageBar with PatternFly TextArea. It can now also be made controllable, similar to other PatternFly inputs. This did mean a couple of type changes for MessageBarProps. onChange has changed from `(event: React.ChangeEvent<HTMLDivElement>, value: string) => void;` to ` onChange?: (event: React.ChangeEvent<HTMLTextAreaElement>, value: string | number) => void;`. onSendMessage has changed from `onSendMessage: (message: string) => void;` to `(message: string | number) => void;`

    - [Inline drawer display mode](/patternfly-ai/chatbot/overview/demo/#inline-drawer-chatbot).
    - [Message feedback and thank-you cards](/patternfly-ai/chatbot/messages#message-feedback).
    - [Resizable function for the conversation history drawer](/patternfly-ai/chatbot/ui#resizable-drawer).
    - [Layout for comparing ChatBots](/patternfly-ai/chatbot/overview/demo#comparing-chatbots).
    - [Support for quick starts](/patternfly-ai/chatbot/messages#messages-with-quick-start-tiles).
    - [Global ChatBot setting menu](/patternfly-ai/chatbot/ui#settings). 
    - [Terms of use modal](/patternfly-ai/chatbot/ui#terms-of-use).
    - Additional message content types (as shown in the [bot messages](/patternfly-ai/chatbot/messages#bot-messages) examples): 
        - Inline error message.
        - Block quotes.
        - Headings.
        - External links, with styling.
        - Images.
        - Tables in messages.
    - **Note:** We're still updating our design guidelines to reflect these changes and will provide an update once they are complete.
- New documentation to guide the use of [analytics in ChatBots](/patternfly-ai/chatbot/analytics).

> 

Reviewer 5: * Added clicked states for response actions and active and selected states for quick responses
* Custom ReactNodes can now be injected in Messages via the `extraContent` prop
* Analytics examples and documentation (unsure if we'd want to call this out here)

#### Component groups

##### Bugs 
- We updated the [responsive actions](/component-groups/controls/responsive-actions) component to make a disabled state available for overflow menu items.
- We fixed props in a number of components, to include support for `ReactNode` objects.

##### Features 
- We added a new [stale data warning component](/component-groups/status-and-state-indicators/stale-data-warning).
- We added a text confirmation option to the [warning modal](/component-groups/error-communication/warning-modal#warning-modal-with-a-text-confirmation).

#### Topology 

##### Bugs
- We updated dynamic context menus (menus whose options depend on asynchronous processes like API calls) to fix an issue that caused menus to open downward (instead of upward) when there wasn't enough screen space. 

#### User feedback 

##### Bugs

> - We made updates to ensure that CSS overrides take precedent over PatternFly's default styles.

Author: ```suggestion
- We made updates to ensure that CSS overrides take precedence over PatternFly's default styles.
```

import './get-started.css';
import { Divider, Timestamp } from '@patternfly/react-core';

<Timestamp>March 2024</Timestamp>

## PatternFly 6.2

### Promoted package versions
- patternfly/patternfly ([changelog](https://github.com/patternfly/patternfly/releases/tag/v6.2.0))
    - [@patternfly/patternfly@6.2.0](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@patternfly/patternfly)
- patternfly/react ([changelog](https://github.com/patternfly/patternfly-react/releases/tag/v6.2.0))
- PatternFly extensions 
    - [@patternfly/chatbot@2.2.0](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@patternfly/chatbot) ([changelog](https://github.com/patternfly/chatbot/releases/tag/v2.2.0))

### Component updates

#### Bugs 
- Select: We fixed scrolling for menus with grouped items.
- Masthead: We correct vertical centering.

#### Features 
-

### Extension updates 

#### Catalog view 

##### Bugs
- We resolved console errors that occurred when read-only badges were passed to `<CardHeader>` via the `actions` prop.
- We adjusted [vertical tab](/extensions/catalog-view/vertical-tabs) styles to remove the underline.

#### ChatBot

##### Bugs

> - We fixed an overflow issue in popovers with long titles.

Author: ```suggestion
```
